<p class="c12 title" id="h.9n6v1xtlh0dk"><span class="c6 c25">Code of Conduct </span><span class="c3 c13 c25 c39">for Inter-Institutional Fieldwork</span></p><h1 class="c7" id="h.9ulethnx82gx"><span class="c41">Key Principles</span></h1><p class="c17"><span class="c3">We are a group of researchers united in our pursuit of knowledge, regardless of the particular discipline, training, or credentials that we each bring to this </span><span>endeavor</span><sup><a href="#cmnt6" id="cmnt_ref6">[f]</a></sup><sup><a href="#cmnt7" id="cmnt_ref7">[g]</a></sup><sup><a href="#cmnt8" id="cmnt_ref8">[h]</a></sup><span class="c3">. Each of us will have an important part to play in the work to come. To aid in this work, </span><span class="c6 c34">we must have a clear </span><span class="c5">understanding</span><span class="c6 c34">&nbsp;of the boundaries between acceptable and unacceptable conduct</span><span class="c3">. This document, the Code of Conduct for Inter-Institutional Fieldwork, is intended to provide such an </span><span class="c3">understanding</span><span class="c4 c3">.</span></p><p class="c15"><span class="c4 c3">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We are collectively committed to certain key principles, which will guide our conduct during shared and individual activities associated with this project. These principles are: </span></p><ol class="c10 lst-kix_kqmbie31wj5g-0" start="4"><li class="c1"><span class="c6 c34">Truth:</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;we are scientists and researchers, engaged in the creation and discovery of knowledge. Our </span><span class="c3">commitment</span><span class="c4 c3">&nbsp;to truth, however, goes beyond our professional goals, and informs the way we interact with each other, fostering a culture of honesty and trust within the group. </span></li><li class="c1"><span class="c6 c34">Respect:</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;we are a group of individuals, each with unique thoughts, needs, and desires. We are </span><span class="c3">committed</span><span class="c4 c3">&nbsp;to treating each other with the respect that we know ourselves to deserve, providing due regard for the rights, emotions, and traditions of every member of the group.</span></li><li class="c15 c28"><span class="c6 c34">Inclusion:</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;as scientists, we recognize the beauty in diversity, and celebrate that diversity. We are a heterogeneous group, including </span><span>different</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;races, religions, ethnicities, genders, sexualities, and many other aspects. We are </span><span class="c3">committed </span><span class="c4 c3">to the inclusion of all of the diversity among us, without discrimination or bias. </span></li></ol><p class="c17"><span class="c3">Our </span><span class="c3">commitment</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;to these key principles guides our adoption of this Code of Conduct for this shared </span>
